🪨✂️🧻 Rock-Paper-Scissors (Console Edition)

A fully interactive, command-line interface (CLI) implementation of the classic hand game. This project features robust input validation, score tracking across multiple rounds, and a highly efficient evaluation algorithm.

✨ Features

Infinite Play Loop: Play as many rounds as you want! The game only stops when you decide to exit.

Intelligent Score Tracking: Tracks your wins and the computer's wins throughout the entire session.

Smart Round Evaluation: Uses an optimized mathematical formula to determine the winner instantly with minimal conditional statements.

Input Protection: Handles invalid user inputs gracefully without crashing the game.

Session Summary: Displays a final scoreboard and declares an overall match winner when you exit.

🛠️ How It Works (Code Architecture)

This program showcases several fundamental and intermediate Python concepts:

The Game Loop (while True): Keeps the game running dynamically and checks for the exit command ('q').

State Management: Keeps track of the user and computer scores using variables defined outside the loop so they do not reset on each round.

Data Mapping (Dictionaries):

Maps input shortcuts (r, p, s) to numbers (1, 2, 3) to simplify logical processing.

Reverse-maps numbers back to text ("Rock", "Paper", "Scissors") for user-friendly display messages.

Optimized Math Logic: Instead of using numerous nested if-else blocks, the winner is determined using a smart subtraction pattern:

Draw: computer == user

User Wins: computer - user equals -1 or 2

Computer Wins: computer - user equals 1 or -2

🎮 How to Play

Make sure you have Python 3 installed.

Navigate to this directory in your terminal:

cd rock_paper_scissors


Run the script:

python rock_paper_scissors.py


Enter your choices when prompted:

r for Rock

p for Paper

s for Scissors

q to Quit the game and see final results.

📸 Sample Gameplay

~~~~~Welcome to Rock-Paper-Scissors!~~~~~

Enter your choice ('r' for rock, 'p' for paper, 's' for scissor, 'q' to quit): r
You entered: Rock
Computer entered: Scissors
You won this round!

Current Score -> YOU: 1 | COMPUTER: 0
-----------------------------------------
Enter your choice ('r' for rock, 'p' for paper, 's' for scissor, 'q' to quit): q

FINAL SCORE
YOU: 1 | COMPUTER: 0
You won the match!
Thanks for playing.....
