🔢🔍 Guess the Number (Hint-Driven Edition)

An interactive, mathematical deduction console game. In this game, the computer selects a secret number, and the player uses dynamic feedbacks (Too High / Too Low) to lock onto the correct number before they run out of attempts!

✨ Features

Multi-Difficulty Settings: Customize your gameplay experience:

Easy: Range 1-50, 7 Attempts

Medium: Range 1-100, 7 Attempts

Hard: Range 1-200, 5 Attempts

Input Integrity (Exception Handling): The game is crash-proof! If a user types text or symbols instead of numbers, Python's try-except handles it gracefully and prompts them to try again.

Persistent High Scores: Tracks your best score (fewest attempts taken to solve) across multiple game rounds.

Navigation Menus: Simple command-line interface with options to Play, View High Scores, or Quit.

🛠️ How It Works (Code Architecture)

This program introduces critical structural concepts:

Robust Error Prevention (try-except blocks): Prevents crash errors when parsing user inputs into numbers using int().

Dynamic Configuration: Uses a dedicated setup function get_difficulty_settings to deliver variable game parameters depending on the user's choice.

State Management: Retains the high_score globally in memory outside the execution frame of individual rounds.

Helper Functions: Segregates logic cleanly—evaluate_guess handles the comparison mathematics, while play_round orchestrates input loops.

🎮 How to Play

Make sure you have Python 3 installed.

Navigate to this game directory in your terminal:

cd guess_the_number


Run the script:

python guess_the_number.py


Pick a choice from the main menu, choose your difficulty, and start deducing!

📸 Sample Gameplay

--- Main Menu ---
1. Play Game
2. View High Score
3. Quit
Select an option (1-3): 1

Select Difficulty:
1. Easy (1-50, 7 attempts)
2. Medium (1-100, 7 attempts)
3. Hard (1-200, 5 attempts)
Choose difficulty (1-3): 2

I've picked a number between 1 and 100. Can you guess it?
You have 7 attempts. Good luck!
Attempt 1/7 | Enter your guess (or 'q' to quit round): 50
📈 Too High! Try a smaller number.
Attempt 2/7 | Enter your guess (or 'q' to quit round): 25
📉 Too Low! Try a larger number.
Attempt 3/7 | Enter your guess (or 'q' to quit round): 37
🎉 Correct! You guessed the number in 3 attempts!
🌟 New Personal Best High Score established! 🌟
